---
title: Web
---

# Web Client

Hoppscotch web client provides you a really easy interface to develop and test you APIs. Get started with Hoppscotch now, no login needed! You can start using the client by clicking [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io).

::image
---
src: clients/hoppscotch-web
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Web Client
---
::

## Progressive Web App

Hoppscotch is also available as a PWA (Progressive Web App).

> Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are web apps that are fast, reliable, and engaging. They are installable and live on the user's home screen, without the need for an app store. They offer an immersive full screen experience, and re-engage users with web push notifications.

## Why PWA

::list{type="success"}

- **Fast** - Load instantly to get started with Hoppscotch in seconds.
- **Installable** - Install Hoppscotch on your device's home screen, just like a native app.
- **Reliable** - Never shows the downasaur, even in uncertain network conditions.
- **Engaging** - Feel like a natural app on the device, with an immersive user experience.

::

## Install Hoppscotch PWA

1. On your computer, open Chrome or any Chromium based Browser.
2. Go to [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io).
3. At the top right of the address bar, click "**Install +**".
4. Follow the on-screen instructions to install the PWA.

::image
---
src: clients/hoppscotch-pwa
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Progressive Web App
---
::

Read more about [Progressive Web Apps](https://web.dev/progressive-web-apps).

::card
#title
[Getting started with REST](/documentation/getting-started/rest/creating-a-request)
#description
Get started with the REST platform on Hoppscotch web client.
::
