---
title: Realtime
---

# Realtime

## Realtime platform

Hoppscotch has a built-in realtime platform that can be used to execute realtime requests. The realtime client platform can be accessed by clicking on the `Realtime` tab in the left sidebar.

Realtime protocols are used in communication, entertainment and even in Internet of Things (IoT) to deliver and handle realtime messages, audio etc.

With Hoppscotch you can work with the following realtime protocols.

::list{type="success"}

- WebSocket
- Socket.IO
- SSE
- MQTT

::

## WebSocket

WebSockets are an alternative to HTTP communication in Web Applications. They offer a long lived, bidirectional communication channel between client and server. Once established, the channel is kept open, offering a very fast connection with low latency and overhead. This makes them ideal for real-time applications.

WebSockets are perfect for scenarios such as:

- When you need to support real-time communication between the client and the server.
- When you need to support a protocol that is more efficient than HTTP.
- When you need to support a protocol that is more efficient than long polling.

## Socket.IO

Socket.io is a realtime event-based communication library built on webSocket. It enables realtime, bi-directional communication between web clients and servers.

Socket.io is perfect for scenarios such as:

- When you need to support older browsers that don’t support WebSockets.
- When you need to support polling transports for mobile devices.
- When you need to support multiple transports for a single connection.

## SSE

SSE is a standard describing how servers can initiate data transmission towards clients once an initial client connection has been established. An SSE connection can discard processed messages without accumulating all of them in memory making it a memory-efficient implementation of XHR streaming.

SSE is perfect for scenarios such as:

- When an efficient unidirectional communication protocol is needed that won’t add unnecessary server load (which is what happens with long polling)
- When you need a protocol with a predefined standard for handling errors
- When you want to use HTTP-based methods for realtime data streaming

## MQTT

Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) protocol is a publish/subscribe protocol that is lightweight and requires minimal memory, CPU and bandwidth to connect IoT devices. Unlike HTTP’s request/response paradigm, MQTT is event driven and enables messages to be pushed to clients.

Once connected to the MQTT server, you can either publish a message under a topic or subscribe to a topic to get messages pertaining to that topic being sent across the server in real-time.

MQTT is perfect for scenarios such as:

- When you need to support real-time communication between the client and the server.
- When you need to support a protocol that is more efficient than HTTP.
