---
title: Hoppscotch
navigation: false
aside: false
---

:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=128px}

::block-hero
---
  cta:
    - Get started
    - /documentation/getting-started/introduction
  secondary:
    - GitHub
    - https://github.com/hoppscotch/hoppscotch
---

#announce
  ::hero-announcement
  ---
    label: "Discover Hoppscotch Documentation v2"
    to: /documentation/getting-started/introduction
  ---
  ::

#title
Open-source API development Ecosystem

#description
Hoppscotch is light-weight, web based API development suite. It was built from the ground up with ease of use and accessibility in mind providing all the functionality needed for API developers with minimalist, unobtrusive UI.

#extra
  ::list{type="success"}

    - **Open-source and lightweight**
    - **Cross-platform support**
    - **Self-Hostable and free to use**

  ::
::

:ellipsis{top=512px}

::card-grid
#title
What's new

#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=32rem top=8rem blur=128px}

#default
  ::card{icon="lucide:rocket"}
  #title
  Lightweight and snappy
  #description
  Hoppscotch is built with performance in mind and designed to be seamless and instant.
  ::

  ::card{icon="lucide:heart"}
  #title
  Open source community
  #description
  Built on top of open source technonlogies by the community, for the community.
  ::

  ::card{icon="lucide:terminal"}
  #title
  Built for developers
  #description
  Have all your teams in one place and collaborate on your APIs with ease.
  ::

  ::card{icon="lucide:command"}
  #title
  Keyboard first design
  #description
  Designed to be intuitive and easy to use with keyboard shortcuts.
  ::

  ::card{icon="lucide:grip"}
  #title
  Cross-platform apps
  #description
  Works on Web, Mac, Windows, Linux and mobile. No installation required.
  ::

  ::card{icon="lucide:lock"}
  #title
  Safe and secure
  #description
  Designed to keep your data safe and protected. Choose the data you sync with us!
  ::
::
