---
title: Share a request
---

# Share a Request

You can effortlessly share individual requests within REST collections with others using Hoppscotch! Recipients will be able to interact with the shared request in their own Hoppscotch instance.

Sharing a request does not provide others with direct access to the original data; instead, it offers them a copy for their use. It's important to note that if a shared request contains environment variables, proper functionality may be compromised. Therefore, it is advisable to replace any environment variables with their corresponding values before sharing.

## Sharing Options

You can share a request through three different widgets:

1. **Links:** Generate raw, HTML, or Markdown links to the request.
2. **Buttons:** Generate a button with a link to the request, suitable for embedding in HTML or Markdown files.
3. **Embeds:** Create a mini version of Hoppscotch that can be embedded in an HTML page, enabling your audience to interact seamlessly with your API request.

After sharing a request, you can choose any of the above widgets as needed.

### How to share a request:

1. Right-click on a saved request within a collection and select "Share Request."
2. Choose between links, buttons, and embeds widgets.
3. Customize the request UI.
4. Copy the share link.

### Viewing your shared requests:

To view the requests you have shared :

1. Click on the "Shared Requests" option in the sidebar.
2. All the requests you have shared will be listed in this section.
3. Click on the desired shared request to open the customization menu.
4. In the customization menu, you can copy the link to share it again.

::card
#title
Learn More about Embeds
#description
[Embeds :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}](/documentation/features/embeds)
::