---
title: Cookies
---

# Cookies

::alert{type="info"}
::list{type="info"}

- Cookies support is only available in the [Hoppscotch Desktop App](/documentation/clients/desktop).

::
::

Hoppscotch Cookie Manager enables you to create and modify cookies associated with a domain and send cookies with requests.

To open the Cookie Manager, click on the "**Cookie icon**" in the bottom bar.

::image
---
src: features/cookie
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Cookie Manager
---
::

### Adding a domain

The Cookie Manager allows you to specify a domain and add the cookies associated with that domain. You can remove all the domains using the "**Clear All**" button.

1. Add domain URL in the input field.
2. Click on the "**Add**" button.
3. Click on the "**Save**" button.

::image
---
src: features/cookie-manager
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Cookie Manager
---
::

Once you've specified a domain, you can add a cookie by clicking the **+** icon and entering a cookie string.

### Removing a domain

You can remove a domain by clicking on the "**Delete**" icon from the Cookie Manager.

### Adding a cookie

You can add a cookie by clicking on the "**+**" icon from the Cookie Manager.

1. Click on the "**+**" icon.
2. Enter the cookie string in the input field.
3. Click on the "**Save**" button.

::image
---
src: features/cookie-manager
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Cookie Manager
---
::

### Editing a cookie

You can edit a cookie by clicking on the **Edit** icon from the Cookie Manager.

1. Click on the "**Edit**" icon.
2. Edit the cookie string in the input field.
3. Click on the "**Save**" button.

### Removing a cookie

You can remove a cookie by clicking on the "**Delete**" icon from the Cookie Manager.

### Sending a cookie with with requests

When you send a request to a domain for which you've specified a cookie, Hoppscotch will automatically include it as part of the request.
