---
title: Collections
---

# Collections

Hoppscotch helps you to organize your API requests with collections. You can create collections and add requests to them to share with your team or to use later. You can also import and export collections from Hoppscotch, OpenAPI, and Postman.

::image
---
src: features/collections
extension: png
alt: Hoppscotch Collections
---
::

You can access the collections by clicking the "**Collections**" icon on the side panel.

## Creating a new collection

To create a new collection, click on the "**Add new**" button on the collections section and enter the name of the collection. You can also create a sub-collection by clicking on the "**Add new**" button on the desired collection and entering the name of the sub-collection.

## Save requests to collections

To add a new request to you collection, you can click on the "**Save**" button on the request page and select the collection you want to add it to. Click on the drop down menu next to save button and click on "**Save as**" to save the request to a new location.

::alert{type="info"}
::list{type="info"}

- You can also use the keyboard shortcut <kbd>`ctrl/cmd`</kbd> + <kbd>`S`</kbd> to save the request to a collection.

::
::

## Organizing collections

You can organize your collections by dragging and dropping them to the desired location. You can also create sub-collections by dragging and dropping a collection to another collection.

### Editing collections

To edit a collection, click on the "**Edit**" button on the collection's options.

### Adding requests to collections

To add a request to a collection, click on the "**New request**" button on the collection's options to save the current request to the collection.

## Deleting collections

To delete a collection, click on the "**Delete**" button on the collection's options.

## Importing and exporting collections

You can import and export collections from Hoppscotch, OpenAPI, and Postman.

### Importing collections

To import a collection, click on the "**Import**" button on the collections section and select the collection type you want to import.

### Exporting collections

To export a collection, click on the "**Export**" button on the collection's options and select the collection type you want to export.
