---
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction to Hoppscotch

Hoppscotch is a light-weight, web based API development suite. Hoppscotch was built from the ground up with ease of use and accessibility in mind. Hoppscotch provides all the functionality needed for API developers with a minimalist and unobtrusive UI. Hoppscotch is free-to-use and as an added perk completely Open Source.

## Hoppscotch clients

Hoppscotch has two different clients:

1. [Hoppscotch Web app](https://hoppscotch.io)
2. [Hoppscotch CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hoppscotch/cli)

::image
---
src: getting-started/hoppscotch-home
extension: png
alt: RESTful API platform
---
::

## Navigating Hoppscotch

::image
---
src: getting-started/navigating-hoppscotch
extension: png
alt: Navigating Hoppscotch
---
::

**Hoppscotch has five panels:**

### Topbar

The topbar is where you can find the search, login, workspace selector and more. 

### Menu

The menu is where you will find the different platforms that Hoppscotch offers and switch between them. You can also access the setting page from the menu.

### Sidebar

The sidebar is where you can see additonal features depending on the platform you are working on. Sidebar houses features like history and collections.

### Main

The main panel is where you will spend most of your time. This is where you will create and send requests and view the responses.

### Footer

The footer houses the status bar. The status bar allows you to toggle sidebar, go full screen, get help and support and more.

Ready to get started?
