---
title: Quick start
---

# Quick start

The easiest way to get started with Hoppscotch is with our hosted Cloud Plan. Get unlimited collections with no limits and all of our features are built for individuals and teams.

[**Get Started :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](https://hoppscotch.io) <span style="float:right"><sup> :badge[**Recommended**] </sup></span>

---

### Hoppscotch Cloud

Hoppscotch Cloud is our hosted API development and testing platform that allows you to share your APIs with your team with ease.

[**Get Started for Free on Hoppscotch Cloud :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](https://hoppscotch.io)

---

### Hoppscotch Desktop App

Hoppscotch Desktop App is a cross-platform desktop application built with Tauri and Hoppscotch Web Client. It is a standalone version of Hoppscotch that can be installed on your computer and used without a browser. Hoppscotch Desktop App is available for Mac, Windows and Linux.

[**Download Hoppscotch Desktop App :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](https://hoppscotch.com/download)

---

### Hoppscotch Self-Host

For full data ownership and control over your API development and testing, you can self-host Hoppscotch on your infrastructure.

::card
#title
[**Self-Host Hoppscotch Community Edition :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](/documentation/self-host/community-edition/getting-started)
#description
Hoppscotch Community Edition is free and open-source. It is licensed under the MIT License. You can use it for personal and commercial projects. It is a great choice for individuals and small teams.
::

<br />

::card
#title
[**Self-Host Hoppscotch Enterprise Edition :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](/documentation/self-host/enterprise-edition/getting-started)
#description
SAML-based SSO, on-prem deployment, audit logs, and more. Hoppscotch Enterprise Edition is a self-hosted version of Hoppscotch Cloud with enterprise-ready features for teams and organizations.
::

::alert{type="info"}
::list{type="info"}

- Hoppscotch Enterprise Edition is available for on-premise deployment with priority support. [Contact Hoppscotch Support](/support/getting-started/introduction)

::
::

---

### Hoppscotch CLI

Hoppscotch CLI is a command-line tool that allows you to run Hoppscotch on your terminal and CI/CD pipelines.

[**Install Hoppscotch CLI :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](/documentation/clients/cli)

---

### Hoppscotch Enterprise Cloud Edition

Hoppscotch Enterprise Cloud Edition is our managed version of Hoppscotch Cloud with enterprise-ready features for teams and organizations. SAML-based SSO, on-prem deployment, audit logs, and more Hoppscotch Enterprise Cloud Edition is available with priority support.

[**Join waitlist :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](https://hoppscotch.io/beta)

[**Contact us :icon{name=lucide:arrow-right}**](mailto:support@hoppscotch.io)
