---
title: FAQ
---

# FAQ

FInd answers to the most frequently asked questions about Hoppscotch.

## General

### What is Hoppscotch?

Hoppscotch is a free and open-source API development environment that helps you to quickly test and debug APIs. It is a web-based alternative to Postman, Insomnia, and Paw.

### What is the difference between Hoppscotch and Postman/Insomnia/Paw/Httpie?

Hoppscotch is a web-based alternative to Postman, Insomnia, and Paw. It is a free and open-source API development environment that helps you to quickly test and debug APIs.

## How-to

### How to use Hoppscotch?

You can use Hoppscotch by visiting [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) and start making API requests. You can learn more about Hoppscotch by reading our [Getting Started](/guides/getting-started/introduction) guide.

### How to install Hoppscotch?

You can install Hoppscotch on your desktop by visiting [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) and clicking on the "Install" button. You can also install Hoppscotch on your mobile device by visiting [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) and clicking on the "Install" button.

### How to use Hoppscotch on mobile?

We're deprecating mobile support for Hoppscotch. You can still use Hoppscotch on mobile by visiting [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) and clicking on the "Install" button.

### How to use Hoppscotch on desktop?

Best way to use Hoppscotch on desktop is by installing the [progressive web app](/documentation/clients/pwa). You can install Hoppscotch on your desktop by visiting [hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) and clicking on the "Install" button.

## Features

### What are the features of Hoppscotch?

Hoppscotch has a lot of features that you can use to make your API development experience better. You can learn more about Hoppscotch features by reading our [Features](/documentation/features/rest-api-testing) guide.

### How do Collections work?

Collections are a way to organize your API requests. You can create a collection by clicking on the "Collections" button on the left sidebar. You can learn more about Collections by reading our [Collections](/documentation/features/collections) guide.

### How do Environments work?

Environments are a way to store variables that you can use in your API requests. You can create an environment by clicking on the "Environments" button on the left sidebar. You can learn more about Environments by reading our [Environments](/documentation/features/environments) guide.

### How does Authorization work?

Authorization is a way to secure your API requests. You can learn more about Authorization by reading our [Authorization](/documentation/features/authorization) guide.

## Bugs

### How to report a bug?

You can report a bug by clicking on the "Report a bug" button on the left sidebar. You can also report a bug by visiting our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/hoppscotch/hoppscotch/issues/new/choose).

### How to report a security vulnerability?

You can report a security vulnerability by visiting our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/hoppscotch/hoppscotch/security/policy).

### Localhost is not working

If you're using Hoppscotch on your local machine, you might need to enable CORS. You can learn more about CORS by reading our [Set up guide](/documentation/getting-started/setup#pre-requisites).

## Support

### How to get support?

You can get support by visiting our [Support page](/support/solutions/community).
